1. Chaumont, J. et al. Clusters of cerebellar Purkinje cells control their afferent climbing fiber discharge. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 110, 16223–8 (2013).

Therefore, the discharge of a population of PCs in a microzone might not only shape the output of the cerebellum but also control its af- ferent climbing-fiber signal. Previous studies have shown that only shape the output of the cerebellum but also control its af- ferent climbing-fiber signal. Previous studies have shown that stimulation of the nucleo-olivary pathway significantly reduces ferent climbing-fiber signal. Previous studies have shown that stimulation of the nucleo-olivary pathway significantly reduces olivary cell firing (16–18) and that pharmacological and genetic stimulation of the nucleo-olivary pathway significantly reduces olivary cell firing (16–18) and that pharmacological and genetic manipulations of PCs or olivary cell activity induce reciprocal modulations of the firing rate of PCs and climbing fibers (19, 20).

These results indicate that PCs may tonically modulate the nucleo-olivary pathway. However, whether the cerebellar cortex can phasically recruit this pathway and whether this circuit functions as a closed loop is currently unknown.

These findings identify a functional closed-loop organiza-tion in the olivo-cerebellar circuits that is potentially important for cerebellar motor learning.

A wide range of theoretical and experimental evidence has led to the proposal that learning mechanisms in the cerebellar cortex underlie the formation and the storage of internal models of the sensory-motor system (46). These models convert desired movements into motor commands or predict sensory outcomes of planned movements (47); the adjustment of the models is performed by supervised learning via the climbing fibers. The of planned movements (47); the adjustment of the models is performed by supervised learning via the climbing fibers. The
cortico-nucleo-olivary pathway described in our study provides a way to propagate the predictions computed in the cerebellar cortex to the inferior olive, where it can be compared, with an appropriate delay, with the actual outcome of the ongoing task carried by other inputs to the inferior olive. Therefore, the closed cortico-nucleo-olivary loops may play an essential role in adjusting the internal models in the cerebellum.

Keywords: motor control, olivo-cerebellar loop, complex spikes